>> Brian Holt: Let's go on to arrays.
>> Brian Holt: Arrays are an ordered
list of something or anything.
So here I have daysOfTheWeek,
and I have them in order here.
So that's the big key about Arrays
is there's order to an array, right.
This the first thing, this is the second
thing, this is the third thing,
right, whereas objects have no order.
Despite the fact that I
declared these in some order,
inside of that object they're
not stored in that order.
Right so, once it's declared in that order
I can't get them back out in that order,
there's no guarantee of
order at all with an object.
Whereas with arrays it's very ordered,
so I can be guaranteed that if this
is the first thing here, this is the first
thing I'm gonna get out of it as well.
So if I looked down here,
when I console.log that,
I get this array back
that looks like that.
>> Brian Holt: Arrays start at zero.
Okay, so when I say daysOfTheweek(0),
index zero is the first
element in the array.
I know that's a little weird, but
programmers always start at zero.
If you remember, when I was doing my for
loop, I said let i equal zero,
just in general everyone starts at zero,
and that's just the way it is,
and get used to it.
There's like one programming
language that starts at one and
everyone makes fun of it.
[LAUGH] So, anyway, just get used to
that the zero index is the first state.
Which makes index 1, as you can see here,
index 1 is the second
element in the array.
So if I asked for index 1,
I'm getting Tuesday.
>> Brian Holt: This actually makes
a lot of the math easier, so
in the end you'll end up
being grateful for this.
But just be aware that indexes start at 0,
okay?
So index 6 is the last element to
the array, it's the seventh thing, so
that would be Sunday.
>> Brian Holt: Questions?
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so this is how
you access something in the array.
You use these square brackets,
and you put a number in there.
>> Brian Holt: That's just how it works.
>> Brian Holt: So that's what those square
brackets are for, anything between square
brackets you'll notice that we
declare these using square brackets.
Those are gonna be arrays,
notice they don't have a key,
they actually are getting a key.
The key for
this one It's implied by the order, so
I gave this as the first thing,
so its key is actually zero.
This one gets one, this one gets two, but
I don't actually have to
declare those things,
they just get put there depending on what
order I put them in, so it's implicit.
>> Brian Holt: So, arrays have a bunch of
additional pieces of information another
bunch of function other built in all right
that we were talking about before they
have bunch from.
So for
example I can ask how many are there?
So I can say primenumbers.length and
I get 8, there are 8 thing in this array,
so that means it goes from 0 to 7 cuz
7 will be the last thing of length 8.
>> Brian Holt: You can count one, two,
three, four, five, six, seven, eight.
>> Brian Holt: So that's what length
we'll give you, it's a property.
So note this is not a function,
right, this is a property,
there's no parentheses at the end.
It's not calling a function,
it's just a property that's set
on it that's called length.
Now there is a function called join,
if you wanna take an entire array and
you wanna make one string
out of it you can call join.
And what join does, you give it
some sort of what are they called?
Delimiter is what it's technically called,
but it's whatever I'm gonna put
between each element in the array.
So I gave it this space pipe space, right?
So you can see here, between each one
of these there's a space pipe space.
I could have easily put,
I don't know, asterisks between it.
>> Brian Holt: I didn't know my font
did that, [LAUGH] that's my font
that makes it like the cute little
wreath looking thing, that's adorable.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: But
you can put whatever you want in here.
If I was super vain I could put my name or
something like that, right?
[LAUGH] That's how it joins them together.
I'm not vain though, right?
No, not at all.
Okay, questions?
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: So, what happens if
I wanna add an element to an array?
So, I've created this array and
I wanna start putting things into it,
there's a thing called push.
And what push does is it puts another
element on the end of the array.
So I have these courses right here, right,
a bunch of courses that are on Front
End Masters, and then what I'll do is,
I'll do Courses.Push and
then I'll push another one on.
So I give it another object
to put on there, and
then if I look down here you'll see that
Sean Larkin's course is on the end here,
and that's the one I pushed on here.
So that's what push does,
it just shoves another one on the end.
>> Brian Holt: You might ask, what
happens if I want to put it on the front?
[LAUGH] There is a function,
I'm not kidding Unshift, I think it is.
Is the literally the worst name for
that, why is it called unshift?
Well if you wanna remove something from
the front of the array it's called shift,
and I'm sure in the room someone is like
well what's the opposite of shifting?
Unshifting, [LAUGH] and
so they called it that.
[LAUGH] Anyway, you never use it, but
just so you know, it's out there.
You use push quite a bit, cuz it's
just putting something on the end.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, what happens
if I want to overwrite something?
So on here, I have my course here,
Complete intro to React.
I'm about to come back and
do v4 of it, so what I can do here,
is I can reference courses2 =, right,
so is assigned if you remember
that's what we said that's gonna be.
And so if I look down here,
you can see it's overwritten that one and
yeah, by setting that to be
something else, make sense?
>> Brian Holt: I actually could've
even gone in here and done this.
So rather than assigning that,
I could've said course2, and
then I could've said .course and
then just change that part.
>> Brian Holt: So
the only thing that I change,
because the teacher name didn't change.
I have not changed my name since last
time I was here, as far as I know.
And now I can say course2.course = this,
and if you go down here and
look, sure enough,
just the course name has changed.
Does that make sense?
>> Brian Holt: Cool,
cuz course two is an object, right?
Maybe it will make more sense
of like Brian's course.
>> Brian Holt: Courses is 2,
>> Brian Holt: And
then done Brian'sCourse.
>> Brian Holt: Sometimes like if that
helps you to separate it into two lines to
pull out in one line, and then second
line to modify it, go right ahead.
>> Brian Holt: Make your code as
readable as possible for yourself,
you can see it down here it
still looks the same way.
>> Brian Holt: So we talked about push,
we talked about overrinding,
that's a good one.
[LAUGH] Yeah, if you override something,
it'll throw away what was there before,
and it'll replace it with something else.
>> Brian Holt: So
what happens if I wanted to go through and
individual log something in the array?
Well I've actually already given
you all the tools to do this,
we can use a for loop to do it.
So if you go right here and I say for
(let i = 0; i < cities.length; right?
Because cities.length in this
particular case is five, right,
that means the last element in
the array is index four, right?
Cuz it's always length minus one
is the last element in the array.
So, don't go past cities.length, i++, and
then I can do console.log cities of i,
right, cuz it's gonna change every
single iteration of the array.
So it's gonna do it on index 0,
then index 1, then index 2, 3, 4, and
it's gonna finish.
So that's how you get down
here the first ones, Seattle,
San Francisco, Salt Lake,
Amsterdam and Hong Kong.
>> Brian Holt: Any questions
about method 1 here?
>> Brian Holt: Trying to
decide if people are asleep or
if this is just being perfectly explained.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: I just don't,
[COUGH] I guess I don't understand
why fully or how you utilize that.
Are you just saying to pull one of
those items out of the list, or to add?
>> Brian Holt: Like,
why are we doing this?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, that part.
Method 1 versus method 2,
maybe I just missed it.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
ignore method 2 for the moment.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: So const city = cities [i],
so this is one individual city right now,
I'm doing console.log[city] and
say like city.toupperCase there you go,
and you can see the difference.
So this little bit right here pulls
out for one iteration, one loop,
right, it pulls out the city that's
at that particular index, right?
So, for city of zero,
it pulls out Seattle, right?
So now city is Seattle and
the console.logs city or
Seattle to uppercase, so
that's why you get SEATTLE right here.
That loop finishes, this gets i++,
right, so now it's index 1, right?
We go back again, cities of i,
this is gonna be cities of 1, right?
So it pulls out San Francisco
then it's gonna do console.log.
San Francisco two upper case and
that's how we get San Francisco down here.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Make sense?
>> Speaker 2: Yep.
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
So, that's that, you can shortcut that by
just saying cities(i) right here,
cities(i),
and then we can cut this out right here.
It's just a little bit more compressed,
but if you find it more readable
to do it the other way, please do.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so that is using
a for loop, this is something that
we've used before, we're used to seeing
i and for loops, and things like that.
Let's talk about method 2,
method 2 is a thing called ForEach.
This is a function that's
built into arrays,
right, so every array has a method on it.
Let's talk about the word method for
just a second,
I've probably have been using that before.
A function is just a function,
we've talked about that,
a method is a function on an object.
Or you can also just use method, to mean
pretty much function, technically it's
a function on an object, but I hear people
use the word method just all the time.
So, more or less when I say the words
method just assume that I mean function.
There's also like procedure,
there's a bunch of words for functions.
Most of the time people either
say function or method,
it varies language by language.
There's some languages that
use the word like method more.
Does that make sense?
Okay, sometimes it's just that vocabulary,
sometimes I have a hard time unraveling.
Okay, forEach() is technically a method,
it's a function,
[LAUGH] okay, and it's a function that
you give another function to, right.
So, this is what we would
call an anonymous function.
And this function is going to be run
once in every item in the array, right?
So this method, in fact,
let's just do this,
if I do, let numberOfTimesRan,
right now it's been done 0 times and
I'm gonna do.
NumberOfTimesRan ++, so
every time this function gets run
this is gonna get incremented.
So if I come down here at the bottom and
I say console.log
numberOfTimesRan, what's
that number gonna be?
How many items are in the array?
Five, so, down here, 5, right?
So, this function gets run five times,
one time for each item in the array.
And then, down here,
I'm seeing console.logcity,
city is being injected as
a parameter from cities.
And that's what for reach does for
you, that's the point of for each.
So, that's why you're able to see Seattle,
San Francisco,
let's just make this to
make it more clearer.
toLowerCase,
>> Brian Holt: And
you can see here, these are the ones
being logged out by forEach.
This is two different ways to accomplish
the same goal, and this is what for
each does for you.
Questions about for each?
>> Speaker 2: Is there a preferred method
when you're programming to use the for
each or a loop?
>> Brian Holt: It depends
on who you ask for sure,
it's definitely a matter of preference.
I use for each constantly and use for
loops far less,
this is a personal preference.
This is more towards what they
call functional programming,
which I'm a big fan of.
And there are other people that
don't like it quite as much.
If you ask, for example,
a hard-core Java developer,
probably far less a fan of
functional programming.
But if you ask someone that's like
a Haskell programmer, or something like
that, they would laugh at you for
using a for loop because they're a jerk.
[LAUGH] So, do what works for you,
if one of these methods feels better or
looks better to you then
absolutely do that one.
In fact, I'm curious,
who prefers method one?
Just a raise of hands here in the room.
And who here prefers method two?
All right, so actually what you can do,
there's a phantom other
parameter here that it's also
injecting and I hereto been ignoring.
And this index,
if I just did index, comma, space,
you can see here it actually is
injecting the index, as well.
>> Brian Holt: This is like the tip of
an iceberg of functional programming.
There is another Kyle Simpson course
called Functional Programming Lite,
there's also Brian Lonstor's course,
which is on both Phenomenal
courses on Front End Masters.
Brian Longworth also has a book so
does Kyle,
they're all really good ways of
getting into functional programming,
it's more stuff like this,
like method two up here.
I will say that I've never taught this to
developers on the first time that they're
learning to program.
And it's because I used to be
scared of functional programming.
And at some point, I realized this
is actually a really good way for
people to get into it and
to get exposed to it early.
Because, it took me probably five years
into my career before I started doing
programming like this.
And my code is much better now, I think.
>> Speaker 2: That's why I'd actually
recommend Bianca's fundamentals
to functional JavaScript course.
>> Brian Holt: Okay she has us [CROSSTALK]
>> Speaker 2: Cover that bridge between
the basics of JavaScript to
starting to use functional methods.
>> Brian Holt: Totally, so
yeah definitely check out Bianca's course.
I definitely endorse Bianca
as a teacher in general,
a lot of my teaching
style is based on hers.
So, I'd like to say I borrowed it but
I definitely just stole it,
[LAUGH] she's phenomenal.
>> Brian Holt: Questions about this?
I don't really test you on this,
there's a lot more deeper
rabbit hole to go down here,
I just wanted to expose it to you ealier.
So the journey will feel
impossible sometimes, so
if this feels hard, it's cuz that's okay.
But Jerome's a really awesome guy,
that is objects in a arrays.